add Python type hints (#359)
NLeSC/guide: language_guides/python.md

* A popular way to learn Python is by doing it the hard way at http://learnpythonthehardway.org/
* Using [`pylint`](https://www.pylint.org) and [`yapf`](https://github.com/google/yapf) while learning Python is an easy way to get familiar with best practices and commonly used coding styles

### Type hints
Since [PEP 484](https://peps.python.org/pep-0484/), which was first implemented in Python 3.5 (released in 2015), Python has gained the ability to add type information to variables.
These are not types, as in typed languages; they are _hints_.
Naively, one could say they are a new type of documentation.
However, in practice they are far more than this, because they do have their own special syntax rules and are thus parsable.
In fact, some tools have started to make use of this in runtime modules as well, making them more than hints for tools like Pydantic, FastAPI and Typer (all described below).
See [this guide](https://realpython.com/python-type-checking/) to learn more about type hints.

Some tools to know about that make use of type hints:

> - [Mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html): tool that checks whether your code uses types correctly.

Reviewer: Make this a bit broader by mentioning (or linking to a page with) alternatives? e.g. https://www.infoworld.com/article/2260170/4-python-type-checkers-to-keep-your-code-clean.html

Author: Sounds good! I just added the link above from a suggestion made in the issue, I think, but if you think yours is better I'm also fine with just replacing.

  Python still allows functions to be called with any type of parameter, but Mypy will warn you when the type of a parameter does not match the function's type hint.
- [Pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/): widely used data validation library that allows you to automatically validate instances of dataclasses at runtime. This means that for this tool the type hints are no longer just hints or a form of documentation, but have actual effects. Essentially, a fully Pydantic-enriched application (in "strict mode") is like having Mypy at runtime (there is also a "tolerant" mode that lets some common types slip through without errors). It effectively turns Python into a statically typed language.
- Most editors nowadays make use of type hints for autocompletion.
  If the editor knows the type of your variable, for instance, it can autocomplete attributes or methods of that class.

We recommend using type hints, where possible and _practical_.
Type hints are still being actively developed; not everything one would like to be able to express in a compact way can yet be achieved.

> This is why, for instance, NumPy arrays and ML library "tensor" types still (in 2024) have awkward type hinting.

Reviewer: Could you be more specific about what "ML library" you mean? And also write out the abbreviation, please

Author: E.g. PyTorch, Tensorflow.

Crucial information that one would typically want to encode for array type input arguments are shapes, but this is not yet possible.

> Other important libraries like Matplotlib have very complex functions that take in many possible types of arguments, leading to overly complex variable types.
> Such huge types clutter your code tremendously, so they are not typically encouraged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would leave this out. There is some discussion possible about the design choices of matplotlib and that is not the aim of our guide. How about saying that type hints are not practical if e.g. the researchers you are developing the code with are not comfortable with using them because they are too technical?

Author: This was a very practical concrete example that I have run into in a recent project where typing becomes more a hassle than a benefit, that's why I mention it. Also, I think it's such a common package for research that it is not a bad example to give in any case.

* For run-time configuration via command-line options, the built-in [`argparse`](https://docs.python.org/library/argparse.html) module usually suffices.
* A more complete solution is [`ConfigArgParse`](https://github.com/bw2/ConfigArgParse). This (almost) drop-in replacement for `argparse` allows you to not only specify configuration options via command-line options, but also via (ini or yaml) configuration files and via environment variables.
* Other popular libraries are [`click`](https://click.palletsprojects.com) and [`fire`](https://google.github.io/python-fire/).

> * [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com): make a CLI app by using type hints with runtime effects. Very low on boilerplate for simple cases, but also allows for more complex cases. Uses `click` internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com): make a command-line application by using type hints with runtime effects. Very low on boilerplate for simple cases, but also allows for more complex cases. Uses `click` internally.
```
To keep the text easy to understand for less technical people
